welcome to another Kirkwood
biotechnology video today I'd like to
talk about pcr our polymerase chain
reaction this is a common experiment or
protocol done in many molecular biology
labs around the world today I'd like to
demonstrate just a little bit about how
it works and what are some of its uses
now as we move on I want to make a
simple analogy for pcr I want to make a
manufacturing analogy so when you
manufacture product you essentially need
the product the machine the blueprint
for making the product the building
blocks for the product the starting
material and then the energy so on pcr
the product is a specific piece or
segment of DNA you're interested in this
may be a gene or something else of
interest you also need the machine in
this case DNA polymerase or tack
polymerase a primer set is your
blueprint so basically what's in between
the primers will be amplified your
building blocks will be your deoxy
adenine deoxy thymine deoxy guanine and
deoxycytidine your starting material is
going to be the template DNA of interest
this may be genomic DNA this may be a
plasmid a vector of some sort and then
finally you need your energy and the
energy for polymerase will be adenosine
triphosphate or ATP all right once we
have all these in the tube now we're
going to cycle it through a couple of
temperatures to kind of get the
components working and get the results
that we want one of the first
temperatures we're going to cycle it
through is 95 degrees Celsius we will
then move on to 60 degrees Celsius or
drop it down and then ultimately 72
degrees Celsius and 95 degrees Celsius
essentially what we're doing is we're
ripping the hydrogen bonds apart between
the two nitrogenous bases are the two
streams and also what's kind of
interesting at this temperature normal
DNA polymerase or what would be found in
us for example would be denatured are
essentially cooked so it would be
non-functional so this is why DNA
polymerase from a thermophilic bacteria
is going to be used and that is tack
polymerase in this case now we dropped a
temperature down the 60 degrees Celsius
this temperature will allow the primers
to anneal or bind to its complementary
sequence on the template
DNA at this point the DNA polymerase can
then bind and then extend and add the
bases off the final temperature the
sequence will be 72 degrees Celsius this
is the optimum temperature for the tact
DNA polymerase so at this point that
extension of the DNA strand from the
primer will take place ok now let's give
an example of how pcr might be used in
the real world normally we don't do PCR
just for the sake of doing pcr so let's
say I was interested in Wilson disease
this is a disease it's a genetic
disorder that prevents the body from
getting rid of extra copper so a small
amount of copper obtained from your food
which is need to stay healthy becomes
poisonous because you aren't able to
basically get rid of it so it causes a
buildup of copper levels over time which
can cause organ damage all right so
let's say I've obtained samples so I've
got 100 patients that are normal
patients and 100 samples that would be
defined as having Wilson's disease what
I'm very interested in looking at is
whether there's a difference in their
sequence somewhere within their genome
that may indicate where the problem lies
so what I do is I've obtained their DNA
lessees from the cheek cell but I need
to find out exactly where the mutation
is so I'm going to do some work and try
to find out what could be interesting
for me all right since I have all of
their genomic DNA I could sequence all
of their genomic sequences so all 23
sets of chromosomes but unfortunately
that comes out to be about 3 billion
base pairs of DNA and that's not very
practical it's actually quite cost
prohibitive so what I really need to do
is narrow down my search a little bit
further so if I look a little bit more
into the research I notice that actually
there's been some studies that implicate
chromosome 13 into Wilson's disease so I
could sequence chromosome 13
unfortunately that's about a hundred and
fourteen million base pairs still quite
large so I need to narrow this down a
little bit further so I did a little bit
more research in the area and found that
a region 13 q 14.3
has been implicated in Wilson's disease
so I'll further look at that region and
what I found with a gene called atp7b
which is a copper transport protein so
this is definitely where I want to look
but if I look at the structure I noticed
as 21 exons and it's transcript or mrna
is about six thousand base pairs so I
don't want to sequence through the whole
thing but I look further to sequence and
I see that X on 18 seems quite
interesting to me it's about 200 base
pairs so this is doable so here's my
sequence and what I'm going to do next
is kind of put it in the form that
you're used to so here's the five prime
to three prime and a double stranded and
now we're going to look at how we're
going to utilize pcr next I have to
design two primers that will flank the
region that I'm interested in amplifying
please notice that I will have a forward
primer and a reverse primer and their
orientation is five prime to three prime
the sequences are also complementary to
the Strand and I have to have one desk
complementary to each strand otherwise I
will not get the product at the I desire
the orientation is important because DNA
polymerase only catalyzes the the
addition of nucleotides to three prime
end and finally what I want to do is
this take you through about three cycles
of the PCR reaction one of the things to
note is it's really not until about
cycle 3 that your actual product you
desire is going to be produced and it's
this product if you pay attention that
will be doubled after every subsequent
round so the original template DNA is
not going to be doubled exponentially or
increase exponentially only the product
between the primers will be increasing
exponentially and here you can see on
round three the highlighted boxes show
the actual product that I desire so once
you're done with about 20 30 40 cycles
you're going to have a test tube or an
eppendorf filled of the pcr product that
you desire at this point you may want to
go send it in for sequencing and then
you can compare your disease state
versus not
state you may then put it into a plasmid
or clone it into a plasmid for further
analysis or to store that sequence away
in the freezer so basically you've got
tons of your product and you can do with
it as you please so hopefully you
learned a little bit about pcr I will
tell you that PCR is a very widely used
protocol using a number labs around the
world and there are many different
varieties of pcr so what I have given
here is an example of just a basic
protocol in a standard pcr reaction but
this will differ in terms of how big of
a piece you want to amplify and your
particular perfect purpose so there are
lots of different types out there and
also there are some specifics on how
primers are designed that I will
hopefully go on into in later videos so
thank you for listening